.TH termite 1 "2013-03-26" "termite" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
termite \- A keyboard-centric VTE-based terminal aimed for use with
a tiling and/or tabbing enabled window manager.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtermite\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtermite\fP is a GTK-based terminal emulator intended for use within
window managers with tiling and/or tabbing support. It provides a fast
terminal experience and pleasant array of keyboard-centric features.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display help message.
.IP "\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
Display version information.
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exec\fR\fB=\fR\fICOMMAND\fR"
Tell termite start \fICOMMAND\fP instead of the shell.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-role\fR\fB=\fR\fIROLE\fR"
The role to set the termite window to report itself with.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-title\fR\fB=\fR\fITITLE\fR"
Set the termite window's title to \fITITLE\fP. This disables dynamic
titles.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directory\fR\fB=\fR\fIDIRECTORY\fR"
Tell termite to change to \fIDIRECTORY\fP when launching.
.IP "\fB\-\-icon\fR\f8=\fR\fIICON\fR"
Override the window icon name.
.IP "\fB\-\-hold\fR"
Keep termite open after the child process exits.
.IP "\fB\-\-display\fR\fB=\fR\fIDISPLAY\fR"
Launch on \fIDISPLAY\fP X display.
.IP "\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR\fB=\fR\fICONFIG\fR"
Specify a path to an alternative config file to use.
.PP
The following two options are built into GTK+ and documented by
\fB--help-gtk\fR
.PP
.IP "\fB\-\-name\fR\fB=\fR\fINAME\fR"
Set the windows name part of the \fIWM_CLASS\fR property.
.IP "\fB\-\-class\fR\fB=\fR\fICLASS\fR"
Set the windows class part of the \fIWM_CLASS\fR property.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS Insert Mode
\fBInsert Mode\fP is the default mode common to most terminal emulators.
This is where you enter commands and interact with the programs running
within \fBtermite\fP.
.PP
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-x\fP"
activate url hints mode
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-r\fP"
reload configuration file
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-c\fP"
copy to \fICLIPBOARD\fP
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-v \fP"
paste from \fICLIPBOARD\fP
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-u\fP"
unicode input (standard GTK binding)
.IP "\fBctrl-tab\fP"
start scrollback completion
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-space\fP"
enter selection mode
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-t\fP"
open a new terminal in the current directory
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-up\fP"
scroll up a line
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-down\fP"
scroll down a line
.IP "\fBshift-pageup\fP"
scroll up a page
.IP "\fBshift-pagedown\fP"
scroll down a page
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-l\fP"
reset and clear
.IP "\fBctrl-+\fP"
increase font size
.IP "\fBctrl--\fP"
decrease font size
.IP "\fBctrl-=\fP"
reset font size to default
.SS Selection Mode
In \fBSelection Mode\fP you interact with the interface of \fBtermite\fP
and the visual representation of the programs running within it. You can
search, mark and copy contents from the display for use in other
programs.
.PP
.IP "\fBq\fP or \fBescape\fP or \fBctrl-[\fP"
enter insert mode
.IP "\fBx\fP"
activate url hints mode
.IP "\fBv\fP"
visual mode
.IP "\fBV\fP"
visual line mode
.IP "\fBctrl-v\fP"
visual block mode
.IP "\fBhjkl\fP or \fBarrow keys\fP"
move cursor left/down/up/right
.IP "\fBw\fP or \fBshift-right\fP"
forward word
.IP "\fBe\fP"
forward to end of word
.IP "\fBb\fP or \fBshift-left\fP"
backward word
.IP "\fBW\fP or \fBctrl-right\fP"
forward \fIWORD\fP (non-whitespace)
.IP "\fBE\fP"
forward to end of \fIWORD\fP (non-whitespace)
.IP "\fBB\fP or \fBctrl-left\fP"
backward \fIWORD\fP (non-whitespace)
.IP "\fBH\fP"
move cursor to the top of the screen
.IP "\fBM\fP"
move cursor to the middle of the screen
.IP "\fBL\fP"
move cursor to the bottom of the screen
.IP "\fB0\fP or \fBhome\fP"
move cursor to the first column in the row\fP"
.IP "\fB^\fP"
beginning-of-line (first non-blank character)
.IP "\fB$\fP or \fBend\fP"
end-of-line
.IP "\fBg\fP"
jump to start of first row
.IP "\fBG\fP"
jump to start of last row
.IP "\fBctrl-u\fP"
move cursor a half screen up
.IP "\fBctrl-d\fP"
move cursor a half screen down
.IP "\fBctrl-b\fP"
move cursor a full screen up (back)
.IP "\fBctrl-f\fP"
move cursor a full screen down (forward)
.IP "\fBy\fP"
copy to \fICLIPBOARD\fP
.IP "\fB/\fP"
forward search
.IP "\fB?\fP"
reverse search
.IP "\fBu\fP"
forward url search
.IP "\fBU\fP"
reverse url search
.IP "\fBo\fP"
open the current selection as a url
.IP "\fBReturn\fP"
open the current selection as a url and enter insert mode
.IP "\fBn\fP"
next search match
.IP "\fBN\fP"
previous search match
.SS Hints Mode
The
\fBHints Mode\fP is meant for accessing urls outputted to the terminal.
When active, links can be launched with a few keypresses.
.SH FILES
\fBtermite\fP looks for the configuration file in the following order:
\fI"$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termite/config"\fP,
\fI"~/.config/termite/config"\fP,
\fI"$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/termite/config"\fP and \fI"/etc/xdg/termite/config"
.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBtermite\fP returns \fI1\fR on failure, including a termination of the
child process from an uncaught signal. Otherwise the status is that of
the child process.
.SH REMARKS
During scrollback search, the current selection is changed to the search
match and copied to the PRIMARY clipboard buffer.
.P
With the text input widget focused, up/down (or tab/shift-tab) cycle
through completions, escape closes the widget and enter accepts the
input.
.P
In hints mode, the input will be accepted as soon as termite considers
it a unique match.
.SS Current Directory
The directory can be set by a process running in the terminal. For
example, with \fRzsh\fP:
.IP
.nf
if [[ $TERM == xterm-termite ]]; then
  . /etc/profile.d/vte.sh
  __vte_osc7
fi
.fi
.PP
or for example, with \fRbash\fP:
.IP
.nf
if [[ $TERM == xterm-termite ]]; then
  . /etc/profile.d/vte.sh
  __vte_prompt_command
fi
.fi
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
man termite.config(5)
