.TH termite.config 5 "2020-05-07" "termite.config" "Termite Config"
.SH NAME
termite.conf \- Termite configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termite/config\fR, \fI$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/termite/config\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtermite\fP looks for the configuration file in the following order, and uses
the first file found:
\fI"$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termite/config"\fP,
\fI"~/.config/termite/config"\fP,
\fI"$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/termite/config"\fP and \fI"/etc/xdg/termite/config"\fR.
.PP
The configuration file for \fBtermite\fR is split into three different
sections: "[options]", "[colors]" and "[hints]".
.SH [OPTIONS] SECTION
.PP
.IP \fIallow_bold\fR
Allows the output of bold characters. (default: true)
.IP \fIaudible_bell\fR
Have the terminal beep on the terminal bell. (default: false)
.IP \fIbold_is_bright\fR
Display bold text in bright colors. (default: true)
.IP \fIbrowser\fR
Set the default browser for opening links. If it's not set, the \fI$BROWSER\fR
environment variable is used. If that's not set either, \fBxdg-open\fR(1)
is used as a fallback.
.IP \fIclickable_url\fR
Whether auto-detected URLs can be clicked on to open them in your browser.
(default: true)
.IP \fIhyperlinks\fR
Enable support for applications to mark text as hyperlinks. Requires
clickable_url to be set. (default: false)
.IP \fIcursor_blink\fR
Specify how the terminal's cursor should behave. Valid options are
\fBsystem\fR to respect the GTK global configuration, \fBon\fR and
\fBoff\fR to explicitly enable or disable them. (default: system)
.IP \fIcursor_shape\fR
Specify how the cursor should look. Valid options are \fBblock\fR,
\fBibeam\fR and \fBunderline\fR. (default: block)
.IP \fIdynamic_title\fR
Allows the shell and terminal applications to update the terminal's title.
(default: true)
.IP \fIfilter_unmatched_urls\fR
Whether to hide url hints not matching input in url hints mode.
(default: true)
.IP \fIfont\fR
The Pango font description for the terminal's font.
.IP \fIfullscreen\fR
Enables entering fullscreen mode by pressing F11. (default: true)
.IP \fIicon_name\fR
The name of the icon to be used for the terminal process. (default: none)
.IP \fIcell_height_scale\fR
Scale the height of character cells. Valid values range from 1.0 to 2.0.
(default: 1.0)
.IP \fIcell_width_scale\fR
Scale the width of character cells. Valid values range from 1.0 to 2.0.
(default: 1.0)
.IP \fImodify_other_keys\fR
Emit escape sequences for extra keys, like the \fBmodifyOtherKeys\fR
resource for \fBxterm\fR(1). (default: false)
.IP \fImouse_autohide\fR
Automatically hide the mouse pointer when you start typing. (default: false)
.IP \fIscrollback_lines\fR
Set the number of lines to limit the terminal's scrollback. Setting
the number of lines to 0 disables this feature, a negative value makes
the scrollback "infinite".
.IP \fIscrollbar\fR
Specify scrollbar visibility and position. Valid options are \fBoff\fR,
\fBleft\fR and \fBright\fR. (default: off)
.IP \fIscroll_on_keystroke\fR
Scroll to the bottom automatically when a key is pressed. (default: true)
.IP \fIscroll_on_output\fR
Scroll to the bottom when the shell generates output. (default: false)
.IP \fIsearch_wrap\fR
Search from top again when you hit the bottom. (default: true)
.IP \fIsize_hints\fR
Locks the terminal resizing to increments of the terminal's cell size.
Requires a window manager that respects size hints. (default: false)
.IP \fIurgent_on_bell\fR
Sets the window as urgent on the terminal bell. (default: true)
.SH [COLORS] SECTION
All options accept RGB values in either "#RRGGBB" or "rgb(RRR,GGG,BBB)"
formats.
.PP
.IP \fIforeground\fR
Sets the foreground color.
.IP \fIforeground_bold\fR
Sets the foreground color when the text is bold. Requires the \fIallow_bold\fR
option to be enabled.
.IP \fIbackground\fR
Sets the background color. This particular option also allows for transparency
using the "rgba(RRR,GGG,BBB,A.AA)" format, where A.AA is the alpha value
(1.00 is opaque, 0.00 is transparent). On X11, this requires a compositor.
.IP \fIcursor\fR
Sets the cursor color.
.IP \fIcursor_foreground\fR
Sets the color for text under the cursor. Only visible when \fIcursor_shape\fR
is set to \fBblock\fR.
.IP \fIhighlight\fR
Sets the highlight color. If unset, highlighting will reverse foreground and
background.
.IP \fIcolor0,\ color1,\ color2\ ...\ color15\ ...\ color254\fR
Sets each individual color. Traditional terminal color schemes change up to
color15, but you may change up to color254 if you wish to do so. Note that
certain applications such as \fBchafa\fR(1) expect colors above color15 to be
untouched.
.SH [HINTS] SECTION
.PP
.IP \fIfont\fR
The Pango font description for the hint's font.
.IP \fIpadding\fR
How many pixels of spacing to have between the hint text and the hint border.
(default: 2)
.IP \fIborder_width\fR
How many pixels should the hint border have. (default: 1)
.IP \fIroundness\fR
How many pixels to use for the hint's corner radius. (default: 1.5)
.PP
The following options accept RGB values with the same formats as the options
in the [colors] section:
.IP \fIforeground\fR
Sets the color for the hint text. (default: #FFFFFF)
.IP \fIbackground\fR
Sets the color for the hint background. (default: #000000)
.IP \fIactive_foreground\fR
Sets the color for the hint text when it matches the input. The entire hint text
will use this color, not just the matched section. (default: #E68080)
.IP \fIactive_background\fR
Sets the color for the hint background when it matches the input. (default: #000000)
.IP \fIborder\fR
Sets the color for the hint border. (default: #FFFFFF)
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtermite\fR(1)
